The when-to-go A wealthy man wanted to go hunting in a part of Northern Canada where
few people had ever hunted.
He traveled to a trading post and tried to find a guy to take him.
But no one would do it.
It was too dangerous, they said.
Finally, he found an Indian who needed money badly, and he agreed to take him.
The Indian's name was Defago.
They made camp in the snow near a large frozen lake.
For three days they hunted, but they had nothing to show for it.
The third night, a windstorm came up.
They lay on their tent listening to the wind howling and the trees whipping back and forth.
To see the storm better, the hunter opened the tent flap.
What he saw started him.
There wasn't a breath of air stirring and the trees were standing perfectly still.
Yet he could hear the wind howling.
And the more he listened, the more it sounded as if it were calling Defago's name.
I must be losing my mind there, Hunter thought.
But Defago had gotten out of his sleeping bag.
He was huddled in a corner of the tent, his head buried in his arms.
What's this all about, the hunter said?
It's nothing, Defago said.
But the wind continued to call to him, and Defago became more tense and more restless.
Eventually he jumped to his feet and he began to run from the tent.
But the hunter grabbed him and wrestled him to the ground.
You can't leave me out here, the hunter shouted.
Then the wind called again and Defago broke loose and ran into the darkness.
The hunter could hear him screaming as he went.
Again and again he cried, oh my fiery feet, my burning feet of fire.
His voice faded away and the wind died down.
At daybreak the hunter followed Defago's tracks in the snow.
They went through the woods, down toward the lake, then out onto the ice.
But soon he noticed something strange.
The steps Defago had taken got longer and longer.
They were so long no human being could have taken them.
It was as if something had helped him to hurry away.
The hunter followed the tracks out to the middle of the lake, but there they disappeared.
At first he thought Defago had fallen through the ice, but there wasn't any hole.
Then he thought something had pulled him off the ice into the sky, but that made no sense.
As he stood wondering what had happened, the wind picked up again.
Then it was howling as it had the night before.
Then he heard Defago's voice.
It was coming from up above.
And again he heard Defago screaming, my fiery feet, my burning feet.
But there was nothing to be seen.
Now the hunter wanted to leave that place as fast as he could.
He went back to camp and packed.
Then he left some food for Defago and he started out.
Weeks later he reached civilization.
The following year he went back to hunt in that area again.
He went to the same trading post to look for a guide.
The people there could not explain what had happened to Defago that night, but they had
not seen him since then.
Maybe it was the windigo, one of them said, and he laughed.
It's supposed to come up with the wind.
It drags you along at great speed until your feet are burned away and more of you than that.
Then it carries you into the sky and it drops you.
It's just a crazy story, but that's what some of the Indians say.
A few days later the hunter was at the trading post again.
An Indian came in and sat by the fire.
He had a blanket wrapped around him and he wore his hat so that you couldn't see his
face.
The hunter thought there was something familiar about him.
He walked over and he asked, are you Defago?
The Indian didn't answer.
Do you know anything about him?
No answer.
He began to wonder if something was wrong, if the man needed help, but he couldn't see
his face.
Are you all right he asked?
No answer.
To get a look at him, he lifted the Indian's hat.
Then he screamed, there was nothing under the hat but a pile of ashes.
Some people say a man is made out of mud.
A poor man's made out of mussel and blood, mussel and blood and skin and bones, a mind
that's weak and a back that's strong, you load sixteen tons, what are you getting?
Another day older and deeper and dead, the same Peter don't you call me cause I can't
go.
So am I so to the company store.
Such things happen.
When Bill Nilsen's cow stopped giving milk, he called the veterinarian, there's nothing
wrong with that cow, the vet said, she's just stubborn, that or some witch got hold of her,
Bill and the vet both laughed.
That old hag, Addy Fitch, I guess she's the closest we've got to a witch around here,
the vet said, but witches have gone out of style, haven't they?
Bill had had a running with Addy Fitch the month before.
He had hit her cat with his car and killed it.
I'm really sorry Addy Fitch, he told her.
I'll get you a new cat, just as pretty, just as good.
Her eyes filled with hate.
I raised that cat from a kitten, she hissed.
I loved her, you'll be sorry for this Bill Nilsen.
Bill sent her a new cat and heard nothing more.
Then, his cow stopped giving milk.
Next, his old truck broke down.
After that, his wife fell and broke her arm.
We're having a lot of bad luck, he thought.
Then he thought, maybe it's Addy Fitch getting even.
And then, hey, you don't believe in witches, you're just upset.
But Bill's grandpa believed in witches.
He had once told Bill that there was only one sure way to stop a witch from causing trouble.
You find a black walnut tree, he said.
And you draw a picture on it, then you mark an X where her heart is, and you drive a nail
into the X.
Every day you drive it in a little deeper.
If she's causing the trouble, he said, she'll feel the pain.
When she can't stand it anymore, she'll come to you or send somebody and try to borrow
something.
If you give her what she wants, that breaks the power of the nail and she'll go on tormenting
you.
But if you don't, she'll have to stop, or the pain will kill her.
That's what his nice gentle old grandpa believed, his pure craziness Bill thought.
Of course, his grandpa didn't have much schooling.
Bill had been to college, and he knew better.
When Bill's dog Joe, a perfectly healthy dog, dropped dead, just like that.
It made Bill angry.
Despite all his schooling, he thought, maybe it is Addy Fitch after all.
He got a red crayon from his son's room, and a hammer, and a nail, and went into the woods.
He found a black walnut tree, and drew a picture of Addy Fitch on it.
He marked an X where her heart was, like his grandpa had said to do.
With the hammer, he drove the nail a little way into the X. Then he went home.
I feel like a fool, he told his wife.
You should, she said.
The next day, a boy named Timmy Logan came by.
Addy Fitch isn't feeling well, he said.
She wonders if she could borrow some sugar from you.
Bill Nelson stared at Timmy in amazement.
He took a deep breath.
Tell her I'm sorry, but I don't have any sugar right now, he said.
When Timmy Logan left, Bill went back to the walnut tree and drove the nail in another inch.
The next day, the boy came back.
Addy Fitch is pretty sick, he said.
She's wondering if you've got any sugar yet.
Tell her I'm sorry Bill Nelson said, but I still don't have any.
Bill went out into the woods and drove the nail in another inch.
The following day, the boy was back.
Addy Fitch is getting sicker, he said.
She really needs some sugar.
Tell her I still don't have any, Bill answered.
Bill's wife was angry.
You've got to stop this, she said.
If this mumbo jumbo works, it's like murder.
I'll stop when she does, he said.
Toward dusk, he stood in the yard staring at the ridge where the old lady lived.
Wondering what was going on up there.
Then in the half-darners, he saw Addy Fitch coming slowly down the hill toward him.
With her pinched bony face and her old black coat, she did look like a witch.
As she got closer, Bill saw that she could hardly walk.
Maybe I'm really hurting her, he thought.
He ran to get his hammer to pull the nail out, but before he could leave, Addy Fitch was
in the yard, her face twisted with rage.
First, you killed my cat, she said.
Then you wouldn't give me a bit of sugar when I needed it.
She swore at him and fell dead at his feet.
I'm not surprised that she dropped dead that way, the doctor said later.
She was very old, maybe 90, it was her heart of course.
Some people thought she was a witch, Bill said.
I've heard that, the doctor said.
Somebody I know thought Addy Fitch had wished him, Bill went on.
He drew a picture of her on a tree, then drove a nail into it to make her stop.
That's all superstition, the doctor said.
But people like us don't believe in that sort of thing, do we?
Is something wrong?
A car broke down late at night way out in the country.
The driver remembered passing an empty house a few minutes earlier.
I'll stay there, he thought.
At least I'll get some sleep.
He found some wood in the corner of the living room and made a fire in the fireplace.
He covered himself with his coat and slept.
Toward morning the fire went out and the cold awakened him.
It'll be light soon he thought, then I'll go for help.
He closed his eyes again, but before he could doze off there was a terrible crash.
Something big and heavy had fallen out of the chimney.
He'd lay on the floor for a minute, then it stood up and stared down on him.
The man took one look and started running.
He'd never seen anything so horrible in his life.
He paused just long enough to jump through a window.
Then he ran and ran and ran and ran until he thought his lungs would burst.
As he stood in the road panting trying to catch his breath he felt something tap him
on the shoulder.
He turned and found himself staring into two big bloody eyes in a grinning skull.
It was a horrible thing.
One of me had said, is something wrong?
High beams.
The girl driving the old blue sedan was a senior at the high school.
She lived on a farm about eight miles away and used the car to drive back and forth.
She had driven into town that night to see a baseball game.
Now she was on her way home.
As she pulled away from the school she noticed a red pickup truck follow her out of the parking
lot.
A few minutes later the truck was still behind her.
I guess we're going in the same direction she thought.
She began to watch the truck in her mirror.
When she changed speed the driver of the truck changed his speed.
When she passed a car he so did he.
Then he turned on his high beams, flooding her car with light.
He left them on for almost a minute.
He probably wants to pass me, she thought.
But she was becoming uneasy.
Usually she drove home over a back road.
Not too many people went that way, but when she turned onto that road so did the truck.
I've got to get away from him, and she began to drive faster.
Then he turned his high beams on again.
After a minute he turned them off, then he turned them on again and off again.
He drove even faster, but the truck stayed right behind her.
Then he turned his high beams on again.
Once more her car was ablaze with light, what is he doing she wondered?
What does he want?
Then he turned them off again.
But a minute later he had them on again, and he left them on.
At last she pulled into her driveway, and the truck pulled right in behind her.
She jumped from the car and ran to the house, call the police!
She screamed at her father.
Out in the driveway she could see the driver of the truck.
He had a gun in his hand.
When the police arrived they started to arrest him, but he pointed to the girl's car.
They don't want me, he said, you want him!
Crouched behind the driver's seat, there was a man with a knife.
As the driver of the truck explained it, the man slipped into the girl's car before she
left the school.
He saw it happen, but there was no way he could stop it.
He thought about getting the police, but he was afraid to leave her, so he followed her
car.
Each time the man in the back seat reached up to overpower her, the driver of the truck
turned on his high beams.
Then the man dropped down, afraid that somebody might see him.
The
bed by the window.
Three old men shared a room at the nursing home.
The room had only one window, but for them it was the only link to the real world.
Ted Conklin, who had been there the longest, had the bed next to the window.
When Ted died, the man in the next bed George Best took his place, and the third man, Richard
Green, took George's bed.
Despite his illness, George was a cheerful man who spent his days describing the sights
you could see from his bed.
He grills, a policeman on horseback, a traffic jam, a pizza parlor, a fire station, and other
scenes of life outside.
Richard loved to listen to George, but the more George talked about life outside, the
more Richard wanted to see it for himself.
Yet he knew that only when George died would he have his chance.
He wanted to look out that window so badly that one day he decided to kill George.
He's going to die soon anyway, he told himself, what difference does it make?
George had a bad heart.
If he had an attack during the night and the nurse could not get to him right away, he
had pills he could take.
He kept them in a bottle on top of the cabinet between his bed and Richard's.
All Richard had to do was knock the bottle to the floor when George could not reach it.
A few nights later George died just as Richard had planned he would, and the next morning
Richard was moved to the bed by the window.
Now he would see for himself all the things outside that George had described.
After the nurses had left, Richard turned to the window and looked out, but all he could
see was a blank brick wall.
I think I'm going to cry, bye bye look, I think I'm going to cry, bye bye look, bye